DRAFT MODEL TENANCY ACT
INVITING COMMENTS / SUGGESTIONS
The draft model tenancy law is intended to be circulated to the States /
UTs for consideration as a model in order to make local laws with such
modifications as would be locally suitable
This is neither a Central Act nor a Central Bill to be enacted by
Parliament
Draft as on 17.04.2015
The Model Tenancy Act
________
Arrangement of Clauses
________
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
Clauses
1. Short title, extent and commencement.
2. Definitions.
3. Act not to apply to certain premises.
CHAPTER II
TENANCY
4. Tenancy Agreement.
5. Period of tenancy.
6. Inheritability of tenancy.
7. Restriction on subletting.
CHAPTER III
RENT
8. Rent payable.
9. Revision of rent.
1
10. Rent court to fix or revise rent.
11. Security deposit.
CHAPTER IV
OBLIGATIONS OF LANDLORD AND TENANT
12. One set of original agreement to be given to the tenant.
13. Receipt to be given for rent paid.
14. Deposit of rent with the Rent Authority.
15. Repair and maintenance of the property.
16. Tenant to look after the premises.
17. Entry with notice.
18. Information about the property manager.
19. Role and responsibilities of property manager.
20. Cutting off or withholding essential supply or service.
CHAPTER V
REPOSSESSION OF THE PREMISES BY THE LANDLORD
21. Repossession of the premises by the landlord.
22. Recovery of possession for occupation.
23. Compensation in case of non vacancy.
24. Refund of advance rent by the landlord.
25. Payment of rent during eviction proceedings.
26. Permission to build additional structures.
27. Special provision regarding vacant sites.
28. Vacant possession to landlord.
29. Provision regarding notice of giving up possession by the tenant.
CHAPTER VI
RENT COURTS & RENT TRIBUNALS
30. Constitution of Rent Court.
31. Constitution of Rent Tribunals.
32. Jurisdiction of Rent Court and Rent Tribunal.
33. Procedure of Rent Court and Rent Tribunal.
34. Powers of Rent Court and Rent Tribunal.
35. Appeal to Rent Tribunal.
36. Execution of the order.
CHAPTER VII
APPOINTMENT OF RENT AUTHORITIES, THEIR POWERS, FUNCTIONS AND
APPEALS
37. Appointment of Rent Authority.
38. Power and procedure of Rent Authority.
39. Appeals.
CHAPTER VIII
MISCELLANEOUS
40. Jurisdiction of civil courts barred in respect of certain matters.
2
41. Court fees.
42. Members etc. to be public servants.
43. Members etc. to function under the High Court.
44. Protection of action taken in good faith.
45. Power to make rules.
46. Laying of rules.
47. Power to remove difficulties.
48. Repeal and savings.
First Schedule
Second Schedule
Third Schedule
!
!
!
!
3
!
41 of 2006
1 of 1996
MODEL TENANCY ACT
AN
ACT
to establish a framework for the regulation of rent and to balance the rights
and responsibilities of landlords and tenants and to provide fast adjudication
process for resolution of disputes, and matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the (Parliament/State/UT Legislature) in the Sixty-sixth
Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
1. (1) This Act may be called the (Name of State/UT) Tenancy Act, _____.
(2) It shall extend to all urban areas of (Name of State/UT):
Provided that the Central/State/UT Government through notification may
exclude any area or units or class of buildings from the operation of this Act
or any provision thereof.
(3) It shall come into force on such date as the Central/State/UT
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette appoint and
different dates may be appointed for different provisions of the Act.
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, - (a) “agreement” or “tenancy agreement” means the written agreement
executed by the landlord and the tenant as required under this Act;
(b) “Rent Tribunal” means Rent Tribunal constituted under Section 31;
(c) “landlord” means a person who, for the time being is receiving, or is
entitled to receive, the rent of any premises, whether on his own account or
on account of or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, any other person or as a
trustee, guardian or receiver of any person or who would so receive the rent
or be entitled to receive the rent, if the premises were let to a tenant, and
shall include his successor-interest;
(d) “local authority” means a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council
or a Nagar Panchayat or a Development Authority, by whatever name called,
or the Cantonment Board, or as the case may be, a civil area committee
appointed under section 47 of the Cantonment Act, 2006 or such other
body entitled to function as a local authority in any city or town, constituted
under any law for the time being in force;
(e) “person with disability” has the same meaning as assigned to it in clause
(t) of Section 2 of the Persons with Disability (Equal Opportunities,
Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995;
(f) “premises” means any building or part of a building which is, or is
intended to be, let separately for the purpose of residence or for commercial
4
Short title,
extent and
commence
ment.
Definitions
.
43 of 1995
or for educational use, except for industrial use and includes-
i) the garden, grounds and out-houses, if any, appertaining to such building
or part of the building,
ii) any fitting to such building or part of the building for the more beneficial
enjoyment thereof,
but does not include hotel, lodging house, dharmshala or inn etc.;
(g) “property manager” means a person or company who is employed by the
landlord to manage the premises and who represents the landlord in his
dealings with the tenant;
(h) “rent payable” in relation to any premises means the rent as per section
8;
(i) “Rent Authority” means an officer appointed under section 37;
(j) “Rent Court” means a Rent Court constituted under section 30;
(k) “Schedule” means the Schedule annexed to this Act;
(l) “tenant” means a person by whom or on whose account or behalf the
rent of any premises is, or, but for a contract express or implied, would be
payable for any premises and includes any person occupying the premises as
a sub-tenant and also, any person continuing in possession after the
termination of his tenancy whether before or after the commencement of
this Act; but shall not include any person against whom any order or decree
for eviction has been made;
(m) “Urban Area” means the areas that fall under the jurisdiction of either
the Municipal Corporation or the Municipal Council or the Development
Authority or the Nagar Panchayat or the Cantonment Board or the civil area
committee or any other such body as the case may be.
3. Nothing in this Act shall apply to –
(a) Any premise(s) owned or promoted by the Central or State or Union
Territory Government or Local Authority or a Government undertaking
or enterprise or a statutory body or cantonment board;
(b) Premise(s) owned by a company, university or organization given on
rent to its employees as part of service contract;
(c) Any premise(s) owned by religious or charitable institutions as may be
specified by the Central/State/UT Government, by notification;
(d) Any premise(s) owned by Wakfs registered under the Wakf Act, 1995
or to any trust registered under the Public Trust Act;
(e) Any other building and/or category of building(s) specifically exempted
in public interest by the Central/State/UT Government through
notification:
Provided that any owner of the premise(s) falling under clause (a) to clause
(e) of sub-section (1) above, wishes that the tenancy agreement entered
into by them be regulated under the provisions of this Act, they may
inform the Rent Authority of their desire to do so at the time of
information of the tenancy agreement under section 4 of this Act.
5
Act not to
apply to
certain
premises.
CHAPTER II
TENANCY
4. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for
the time being in force, no person shall, after the commencement of this
Act, let or take on rent any premises except by an agreement in writing,
which shall be informed to the Rent Authority by the landlord and tenant
jointly, in the form specified in the First Schedule.
(2) Where, in relation to a tenancy created before the commencement of this
Act -
(a) an agreement in writing was already entered into it shall be informed to
the Rent Authority;
(b) no agreement in writing was entered into, the landlord and the tenant
shall enter into an agreement in writing with regard to that tenancy, and
inform the Rent Authority, in the form specified in the First Schedule:
Provided that where the landlord and the tenant fail to present jointly a copy
of tenancy agreement under clause (a) or fail to reach an agreement under
clause (b) such landlord and the tenant shall separately file the particulars
about such tenancy.
(3) Every agreement referred to in sub-section (1) or required to be executed
under sub-section (2) shall be in such manner and within such period as may
be prescribed.
(4) The Rent Authority after receiving such information about tenancy
agreement, shall register the agreement and provide a registration number to
the parties.
(5) Information provided as per sub-section (1) and (2) shall be taken as
evidence of facts relating to tenancy and matters connected therewith and in
its absence any statement in the agreement shall not be received as evidence
of the facts in any court of law.
(6) The Rent Authority shall upload the details of all tenancies along-with
the registration number provided under sub-section (4), in the form and
manner prescribed, on its website within fifteen days of the allotment of the
registration number.
5. (1) All tenancies entered into after the commencement of this Act shall be
for a period as agreed between the landlord and the tenant and as specified
in the tenancy agreement.
(2) The tenant may approach the landlord for renewal or extension of the
tenancy, within the period agreed to in the tenancy agreement, prior to the
end of tenancy period and if agreeable to the landlord may enter into a new
tenancy agreement with the landlord on mutually agreed terms and
conditions.
(3) If a tenancy for a fixed term ends and has not been renewed or the
premises have not been vacated by the tenant at the end of such tenancy, the
tenancy shall be deemed to be renewed on a month-to-month basis on the
same terms and conditions as were in the expired tenancy agreement, for a
maximum period of six months.
Period of
tenancy.
6
Tenancy
Agreement
.
6. (1) The tenancy shall cease immediately after the death of the tenant save
as provided in sub-section (2).
(2) In the event of the death of a tenant, the right of tenancy of residential
and non-residential premises shall devolve for the remaining period of
tenancy to his successors in the following order:-
a) Spouse;
b) Sons/unmarried daughters;
c) Parents;
d) Daughter-in-law being the widow of a predeceased son:
Provided that the successor had been ordinarily living or working in the
premises with the deceased tenant upto his death.
7. (1) After the commencement of this Act, no tenant shall without the
previous consent in writing of the landlord –
(a) sublet whole or part of the premises held by him as a tenant;
(b) transfer or assign his rights in the tenancy agreement or any part thereof.
(2) Where the premises are sublet as per sub-section (1) above the tenant
shall notify the landlord the date of commencement or termination of sub-
tenancy, as the case may be, within one month of the commencement or
termination.
CHAPTER III
RENT
8. The rent payable in relation to a premises shall be,-
(a) in case of new tenancies entered into after the commencement of this
Act, the rent agreed to between the landlord and the tenant at the
commencement of the tenancy;
(b) in case of tenancies entered into before the commencement of this Act,
after the expiry of twelve months from the commencement of this Act, rent
payable shall be as per sub-section (a) of section 8 above, and -
i. The landlord shall intimate the tenant two months prior to the expiry
of the said twelve months about the revision in rent, if required;
ii. In the absence of an agreement between the landlord and the tenant
on the rent payable as per sub-section (a) of section 8 above, the landlord
shall have the option to terminate the tenancy as per clause (a) of sub-
section (2) of section 21.
9. (1) Revision of rent between the landlord and the tenant shall be as per
the terms set in the Tenancy Agreement.
(2) Save as agreed other in the agreement, the landlord shall give a notice in
writing three months before the revised rent becomes due.
(3) If a tenant who has been given notice of an intended rent increase under
sub-section (2) of section 9 above, fails to give the landlord notice of
termination of tenancy, the tenant shall be deemed to have accepted
whatever rent increase has been proposed by the landlord.
7
Inheritabili
ty of
tenancy.
Restriction
on
subletting.
Rent
payable.
Revision
of rent.
(4) In case the premises has been let for a fixed term, rent may not be
increased during the currency of the tenancy period unless the amount of
increase or method of working out the increase is expressly set out in the
Tenancy Agreement.
(5) No tenant shall directly or indirectly sublet or assign, whole (or part) of
the premises for a rent that is higher than the rent (or the proportionate
rent) charged by the landlord to the tenant.
(6) Where the landlord, after the commencement of tenancy and with
agreement with the tenant has incurred expenditure on account of
improvement, addition or structural alteration in the premises occupied by
the tenant, which does not include repairs necessary to be carried out under
Section 15, the landlord may increase the rent of the premises by an amount
as agreed between the landlord and the tenant, prior to the commencement
of the work and such increase in rent shall become effective from one
month after the completion of work.
(7) Where after the rent of a premises has been agreed or fixed, there has
been a decrease or diminution or deterioration of accommodation or
housing services in the premises, the tenant may claim a reduction in the rent
and may approach the Rent Authority in case of conflict.
(8) The landlord may either restore the premises and the housing services as
at the commencement of tenancy or agree for a reduction in rent.
10. The Rent Authority on an application by the landlord or tenant will fix or
revise, as the case may be, the rent and other charges payable by the tenant
as also fix the date from which the revised rent becomes payable.
11. (1) Save an agreement to the contrary, it shall be unlawful to charge a
security deposit in excess of three times the monthly rent.
(2) The security deposit shall be refunded to the tenant within one month
after vacation of the premises, after making due deduction of any liability of
the tenant.
CHAPTER IV
OBLIGATIONS OF LANDLORD AND TENANT
12. After the tenancy agreement has been signed by both the landlord and
tenant; the landlord must give one original signed and registered agreement
to the tenant within fifteen days of the agreement being signed by both the
landlord and the tenant in the manner as prescribed.
13. (1) Every tenant shall pay rent and other charges payable within the
stipulated period as in the tenancy agreement between the landlord and the
tenant.
(2) Every tenant who makes payment of rent or other charges payable or
advance towards such rent or other charges to his landlord, shall be entitled,
against acknowledgement, to obtain forthwith from the landlord or his
property manager, a written receipt for the amount paid to him, signed by
8
Rent
Authority
to fix or
revise rent.
Security
deposit.
One set of
original
agreement
to be given
to the
tenant.
Receipt to
be given
for rent
paid.
the landlord or his property manager.
14. (1) Where the landlord does not accept any rent and other charges
payable or refuses to give a receipt, the rent and other charges shall be sent
to the landlord by postal money order or any other method prescribed
consecutively for two months, and if the landlord does not accept the rent
and other charges within this period, then the tenant may deposit the same
with the Rent Authority.
(2) Whenever there is bona-fide doubt about the person or persons to whom
the rent is payable, the tenant may deposit such rent and other charges with
the Rent Authority.
(3) On deposit of the rent, the Rent Authority shall investigate the case and
pass an order based on facts of the case.
(4) The withdrawal of rent and other charges payable deposited under sub-
section (1) or sub-section (2), as the case may be, shall not operate as an
admission against the person withdrawing it to the correctness of rent or any
other fact stated by the tenant.
(5) Any rent and charges not withdrawn for five years by any person entitled
to withdraw shall be forfeited by the Central/State/UT Government.
15. (1) Notwithstanding any contract in writing to the contrary, the landlord
and the tenant shall be bound to keep the premises in as good a condition as
at the commencement of the tenancy, except for normal wear and tear, and
shall be responsible for the respective repairs and maintenance as specified
in the Second Schedule.
(2) In case of common facilities shared among the tenants or with the
landlord the respective responsibilities of each tenant and landlord will be
specified in the Tenancy Agreement
(3) In the event of tenants refusal to carry out scheduled or agreed repairs
the landlord shall get the repairs done and deduct the amount from the
Security Deposit.
(4) In case the landlord refuses to carry out the scheduled or agreed repairs,
the tenant can get the work done and deduct the same from periodic rent:
Provided that in no case will the deduction from rent in any one month
exceed fifty per cent of the agreed rent for one month.
(5) In case the unit is uninhabitable without the repairs and the landlord has
refused to carry out the required repairs, after being called upon to get the
repairs done in writing by the tenant(s), the tenant(s) will have the right to
abandon the unit after giving landlord fifteen days notice in writing or by
approaching the Rent Authority.
16. During the tenancy, the tenant must -
(a) not intentionally or negligently damage the premises or permit such
damage;
(b) notify the landlord of any damage as soon as possible;
(c) take reasonable care of the premises and its contents and keep it
reasonably habitable having regard to its condition at the commencement of
tenancy and the normal incidence of living.
Deposit of
rent with
the Rent
Authority.
Repair and
maintenan
ce of
property.
Tenant to
look after
the
premises.
9
17. (1) A landlord or the property manager may enter a premises in
accordance with written notice given to the tenant at least twenty-four hours
before the time of entry under the following circumstances:
(a) to carry out repairs or replacement or do or get done work in the
premises;
(b) to carry out an inspection of the premises for the purpose of determining
whether the premises is in a habitable state;
(c) for any other reasonable reason for entry specified in the Tenancy
Agreement.
(2) The written notice will specify the reason for entry, the day and time of
entry between 7.00 A.M. to 8.00 P.M.
18. In case the landlord has hired a property manager, the landlord must
provide tenant the following information -
(a) property manager’s name;
(b) the proof that he is agent of the landlord and employed by the landlord;
(c) if the property manager is a company, name of the company, employee
who can be contacted in relation to the tenancy agreement etc.
19. The functions of the property manager may include the following -
(a) collection of rent against receipt;
(b) getting essential repairs done on behalf of the landlord;
(c) inspection of the premises from time to time;
(d) giving notices to tenant(s) for (i) proper maintenance of the premises, (ii)
delay in payment of rent; (iii) revision of rent; (iv) vacation of premises; (v)
renewal of tenancy;
(e) help in resolution of disputes among tenants and between landlord and
tenant(s);
(f) any other matters relating to tenancy.
20. (1) No landlord or tenant either by himself or through any person shall
cut-off or withhold any essential supply or service in the premises occupied
by the tenant or the landlord.
(2) In case of contravention of provisions of sub-section (1) and on
application from the tenant or the landlord, as the case may be, the Rent
Authority after examining the matter may pass an interim order directing the
restoration of supply of essential services immediately pending the inquiry
referred to in sub-section (3).
(3) The Rent Authority shall conduct an inquiry against the application made
by the landlord or the tenant, as the case may be, and complete the inquiry
within one month of filing of such application.
(4) The Rent Authority may also levy a penalty on the person responsible for
cutting off or withholding the essential supply, which may extend upto an
amount as may be prescribed.
(5) The Rent Authority may direct that compensation be paid to the landlord
or tenant if it finds that the application was made frivolously or vexaciously.
Entry with
notice.
Informatio
n about
the
property
manager.
Role and
responsibil
ities of
property
manager.
Cutting off
or
withholdin
g essential
supply or
service.
10
4 of 1882
Explanation- Essential services includes supply of water, electricity, lights in
passages, lifts and on staircase, conservancy, parking, communication links
and sanitary services etc.
CHAPTER V
REPOSSESSION OF THE PREMISES BY THE LANDLORD
21. (1) A tenant shall not be evicted during the continuance of tenancy
agreement except in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2).
(2) The Rent Court may, on an application made to it in the manner
prescribed, make an order for the recovery of possession of the premises on
one or more of the following grounds, namely:-
(a) that the landlord and tenant have failed to agree to the rent payable under
section 8;
(b) that the tenant has not paid the arrears in full of rent payable and other
charges payable as specified in sub-section (1) of Section 13 for two months,
including interest for delayed payment as may be specified for in the tenancy
agreement or prescribed, as the case may be, within one month of notice of
demand for the arrears of such rent and all charges payable being served on
him by the landlord in the manner provided in sub-section (4) of Section 106
of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882:
Provided that no order for eviction of the tenant on account of default of
payment of rent shall be passed, if the tenant makes payment to the landlord
or deposits with the Rent Court all arrears of rent including interest within
one month of notice being served on him:
Provided further that this relief shall not be available again, if the tenant
defaults in payments of rent consecutively for two months in any one year
subsequent to getting relief once;
(c) that the tenant has after the commencement of this Act, parted with the
possession of whole or any part of the premises without obtaining the
written consent of the landlord;
(d) that the tenant has continued misuse of the premises even after receipt of
notice from the landlord to stop such misuse.
Explanation – For the purpose of this clause, misuse of premises means
encroachment of additional space by the tenant or use of premises which
causes public nuisance or causes damage to the property or is detrimental to
the interest of the landlord or for an immoral or illegal purposes;
(e) that the premises or any part thereof are required by the landlord for
carrying out any repairs or building or rebuilding or additions or alterations
or demolition, which can not be carried out without the premises being
vacated:
Provided that the re-entry of the tenant after such repairs, rebuilding,
addition, alteration etc. will be allowed only when it has been mutually
agreed to between the landlord and the tenant and the new tenancy
agreement has been submitted with the Rent Authority:
Provided further that re-entry of the tenant shall not be allowed in the
absence of such mutual agreement submitted with the Rent Authority and
11
Repossessi
on of the
premises
by the
landlord.
also in cases where the tenant has been evicted under the orders of the Rent
Court.
(f) that the premises or any part thereof are required by the landlord for
carrying out any repairs, building, rebuilding, additions, alterations or
demolition, for change of its use as a consequence of change of land use by
the competent authority;
(g) that the premises let for residential or non-residential purpose are
required by the landlord for occupation for residential or non-residential
purposes for himself or for any member of his family or for any person for
whose benefit the premises were held and the landlord or such person is not
in possession of any suitable accommodation within the same urban area;
(h) that the tenant has given written notice to quit and in consequence of
that notice the landlord has contracted to sell the accommodation or has
taken any other step, as a result of which his interests would seriously suffer
if he is not put in possession of that accommodation;
(3) In any proceedings for eviction under clause (e) of sub-section (2), the
Rent Court may allow eviction from only a part of the premises, if the
landlord is agreeable to the same.
22. (1) Where an order for recovery of possession of any premises is made
on the ground specified in clause (g) of sub-section (2) of section 21, the
landlord shall be entitled to obtain possession thereof within a period of one
month in the case of residential premises and two months in the case of
non-residential premises from the date of passing of eviction order:
Provided that in case of premises let by category of landlords specified in the
Third Schedule or by their spouse or dependent children (including
dependents of pre-deceased personnel in armed forces), the landlord shall be
entitled to obtain possession immediately after passing of the eviction order.
(2) Where a landlord recovers possession of any premises from the tenant
under clause (g) of sub-section (2) of Section 21, the landlord shall not,
except with the permission of the Rent Court obtained in the prescribed
manner, re-let whole or part of the premises within three years from the date
of obtaining such possession, and if the landlord re-lets his premises without
permission of the Rent Court, the Rent Court may levy a penalty on the
landlord as prescribed.
23. A landlord is entitled to compensation of double the monthly rent for
the use and occupation of a premise by a tenant who does not vacate the
unit after his tenancy has been terminated by order, notice or agreement.
Recovery
of
possession
for
occupation
.
Compensa
tion in
case of
non-
vacancy.
Refund of
advance
rent by the
landlord.
24. (1) Where a landlord exercises the right of recovery of possession under
sub-section (2) of Section 21, and he had received any rent or any other
payment in advance from the tenant, he shall before recovery of possession,
refund to the tenant such an amount after deducting the rent and other
charges due to him.
(2) If any default is made in making any refund, the landlord shall be liable to
pay simple interest at such rate as may be prescribed from time to time on
the amount which he has omitted or failed to refund.
12
25. In any proceedings for recovery of possession on any ground other than
that referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 21, the
tenant contests the claim for eviction, the landlord may at any stage of
proceedings, apply to the Rent Court to direct the tenant to pay to the
landlord rent payable as under Section 8 and the Rent Court may order the
tenant to make such payment as agreed regularly to the landlord by 10th of
the month and all other charges due from the tenant along with penal
charges, if any, due to delay in the same as per sub section (1) of Section 13.
26. Where the landlord proposes to make any improvement in or construct
any additional structure on any building which has been let to a tenant and
the tenant refuses to allow the landlord to make such improvement or
construct such additional structure and the Rent Court on an application
made to him in this behalf by the landlord is satisfied that the landlord is
ready and willing to commence the work, the Rent Court may permit the
landlord to do such work and may make such other order as he may think
fit.
27. Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 21, where any premises
which have been let comprising of vacant land, upon which it is permissible
under the municipal byelaws, for the time being in force to erect any
building, whether for residence or for any other purpose, and the landlord
proposing to erect such building is unable to obtain possession of the same
from the tenant by agreement with him and the Rent Court, on an
application made to it in this behalf by the landlord, is satisfied that the
landlord is ready and willing to commence the work and that the severance
of the vacant land from the rest of the premises shall not cause undue
hardship to the tenant, the Rent Court may-
(a) direct such severance;
(b) place the landlord in possession of the vacant land;
(c) determine the rent payable by the tenant in respect of the rest of the
premises; and
(d) make such other orders as he thinks fit in the circumstances of the case.
28. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being
in force, where the interest of a landlord in any premises is determined for
any reason whatsoever and any order is made by the Rent Court under this
Act for the recovery of possession of such premises, the order shall, subject
to the provision of sub-section (3) of section 21, be binding on all occupants
who may be in occupation of the premises and vacant possession thereof
shall be given to the landlord by evicting all such occupants therefrom.
29. (1) Every tenant who is in possession of any premises to which this Act
applies shall observe all the terms and conditions of the tenancy agreement
and shall be entitled to the benefits thereof.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in this Act or any other law for the time being
in force, the tenant may give up possession of the premises on giving such
notice as is required under the tenancy agreement and in the absence of any
stipulation relating to such notice, the tenant shall give notice to the landlord
of atleast one month before giving up possession of the premises.
Payment
of rent
during
eviction
proceeding
s.
Permission
to build
additional
structures.
Special
provision
regarding
vacant
sites.
Vacant
possession
to
landlord.
Provision
regarding
notice of
giving up
possession
by the
tenant.
CHAPTER VI
13
4 of 1882
9 of 1872
5 of 1908
RENT COURTS & RENT TRIBUNALS
30. (1) The Central/State/UT Government may, by notification, constitute
such number of Rent Court in as many urban areas as may be deemed
necessary by it.
(2) Where two or more Rent Courts are constituted for any urban area, the
Central/State/UT Government may, by general or special order, regulate the
distribution of business among them.
(3) A Rent Court may consist of one or more members (hereinafter referred
to as the Presiding Officer) to be appointed by the Central/State/UT
Government in consultation with the High court.
(4) No person shall be eligible to be appointed as Presiding Officer of the
Rent Court unless he is member of the State Higher Judicial Service.
(5) The Central/State/UT Government may, in consultation with the High
Court, authorize the Presiding Officer of one Rent Court to discharge the
functions of the Presiding Officer of another Rent Court also.
31. (1) The Central/State/UT Government may, by notification, constitute
such number of Rent Tribunals at such places as may be deemed necessary
by it and notify a Rent Tribunal as Principal Rent Tribunal, where more than
one Tribunal is constituted.
(2) The Rent Tribunal shall be a multi-member Tribunal headed by a
Principal Appellate Member, and the senior most judge shall function as
Principal Appellate Member and shall have the power to transfer appeal
cases from one member of the Appellate Tribunal to another member
whenever deemed necessary, and similarly the Principal Appellate Tribunal
may on an application or suo-motu transfer a suit from one Rent Court to
other Rent Court, and all the members of Rent Tribunal shall be appointed
by the Central/State/UT Government in consultation with the High Court.
(3) No person shall be eligible to be appointed as Principal Member of the
Rent Tribunal unless he has been a High Court Judge.
32. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being
in force, in the areas to which this Act extends, only the Rent Court and no
Civil Court shall have jurisdiction, except the jurisdiction of Rent Authority
under Section 38, to hear and decide the applications relating to disputes
between landlord and tenant and matters connected with and ancillary
thereto covered under this Act:
Provided that the Rent Court shall, in deciding such applications relating to
tenancies and premises, give due regard to the provisions of the Transfer of
Property Act, 1882, the Indian Contract Act, 1872 or any other substantive
law applicable to such matter in the same manner, in which such law would
have been applied had the dispute been brought before a Civil Court by way
of suit.
33. (1) Subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, the Rent Court
and the Rent Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down by the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 but shall be guided by the principle of natural
justice and shall have power to regulate their own procedure, and the Rent
Court shall follow the following procedure, namely –
14
Constitutio
n of Rent
Court.
Constitutio
n of Rent
Tribunals.
Jurisdictio
n of Rent
Court and
Rent
Tribunal.
Procedure
of Rent
Court and
Rent
Tribunal.
5 of 1908
5 of 1908
(a) the landlord or tenant may file an application before the Rent Court
accompanied by affidavits and documents, if any;
(b) the Rent Court then shall issue notice to the opposite party, accompanied
by copies of application, affidavits and documents;
(c) the opposite party shall file a reply accompanied by affidavits and
documents, if any, after serving a copy of the same to the applicant;
(d) the applicant may file a rejoinder, if any, after serving the copy to the
opposite party;
(e) the Rent Court shall then fix a date of hearing and may hold such
summary inquiry as it deems necessary.
(2) In every case, before the Rent Court and the Rent Tribunal the evidence
of a witness shall be given by affidavit. However, the Rent Court and the
Rent Tribunal, where it appears to it that it is necessary in the interest of
justice to call a witness for examination or cross-examination, such witness
can be produced and may order attendance for examination or cross-
examination of such a witness.
(3) The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 regarding service of
summons shall be applicable mutatis mutandis for service of notice by the
Rent Court or Rent Tribunal.
(4) Every application or appeal, so far as possible shall be in the model
forms as prescribed.
(5) The Rent Court shall not ordinarily allow more than three adjournments
at the request of a party throughout the proceedings and in case he decides
to do so, it shall record the reasons for the same in writing and order the
party requesting adjournment to pay the reasonable cost.
(6) (a) All applications under clause (a), (b), (c), (e), (f) and (h) of sub-section
(2) of Section 21 shall be decided within 90 days of filing of application to
the Rent Court.
(b) Applications under clauses (d) and (g) of sub-section (2) of Section 21
shall be decided within 30 days of filing of application to the Rent Court.
34. (1) The Rent Court and the Rent Tribunal for the purpose of
discharging their functions under their Act, shall have the same powers as
are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 for the
purposes of,–
(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining
him on oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of documents;
(c) issuing commissions for examination of the witnesses or documents;
(d) issuing commission for local investigation;
(e) receiving evidence on affidavits;
(f) dismissing an application or appeal for default or deciding it ex-parte;
(g) setting aside any order of dismissal of any application or appeal for
default or any other order passed by it ex-parte;
(h) execution of its order and decisions under this Act without reference to
15
Powers of
Rent Court
and Rent
Tribunal.
45 of 1860
2 of 1974
2 of 1974
any civil court;
(i) reviewing its orders and decisions;
(j) any other matter which may be prescribed.
(2) Any proceedings before the Rent Court or Rent Tribunal shall be
deemed to be a judicial proceedings within the meaning of section 193 and
228, and for the purpose of section 196, of the Indian Penal Code 1860 and
the Rent Court and the Rent Tribunal shall be deemed to be a civil court for
the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973.
(3) For the purpose of holding any inquiry or discharging any duty under this
Act, the Rent Court may –
(a) after giving not less than twenty-four hours notice in writing, enter and
inspect or authorize any officer, subordinate to him, to enter and inspect,
any premises at any time between sunrise and sunset;
(b) by written order, require any person to produce for his inspection such
books or documents relevant to the inquiry, at such time and at such place
as may be specified in the order.
(4) The Rent Court may, if it thinks fit, appoint one or more persons having
special knowledge of the matter under consideration as an assessor or valuer
to advise him in the proceeding before him.
(5) Any clerical or arithmetical mistake in any order passed by the Rent
Court or any other error arising out of any accidental omission may, at any
time, be corrected by the Rent Court on an application received by it in this
behalf from any of the parties or otherwise.
(6) The Rent Court may exercise the powers of a Judicial Magistrate First
Class for the recovery of the fine under the provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 and the Rent Court shall be deemed to be a
Magistrate under the said code for the purposes of such recovery.
(7) An order made by a Rent Court or an order passed in appeal or revision,
or review under this Chapter shall be executable by the Rent Court as a
decree of a civil court and for this purpose, the Rent Court shall have the
powers of a civil court.
(8) The Rent Court may set aside any order passed ex-parte if the aggrieved
party files an application and satisfies it that notice was not duly served or
that he was prevented by any sufficient cause from appearing when the case
was called for hearing.
(9) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, every order made by the
Rent Court shall, subject to decision in appeal, be final and shall not be
called in question in any original suit, application or execution proceedings.
35. (1) From every final order passed by the Rent Court, an appeal shall lie
to the Rent Tribunal, within the local limits, of whose jurisdiction the
premises is situated and such an appeal shall be filed within a period of thirty
days from the date of final order along-with copy of such final order.
(2) The Rent Tribunal, upon filing an appeal under sub-section (1) shall
serve notice, accompanied by copy of appeal to the respondent and fix a
hearing not later than 30 days from the date of service of notice of appeal on
16
Appeal to
Rent
Tribunal.
the respondent and the appeal shall be disposed of within a period of one
hundred and twenty days from the date of service of notice of appeal on the
respondent.
(3) Where the Rent Tribunal considers it necessary in the interest of arriving
at a just and proper decision, it may allow documents at any stage of the
proceedings in appeal, however, this facility would be available to the
applicants only once during the hearing.
(4) The Rent Tribunal may in its discretion pass such interlocutory order
during the pendency of the appeal, as it may deem fit.
(5) (a) While deciding the appeal, the Rent Tribunal after recording reasons
therefor confirm, set aside or modify the order passed by a Rent Court;
(b) The decision of the Rent Tribunal shall be final and no further appeal or
revision shall lie against the order.
(6) On application of any of the parties and after notice to the parties and
after hearing such of them as have desired to be heard, or of its own motion
without such notice, the Principal Rent Tribunal may at any stage transfer
any case from one Rent Court to any other Rent Court for disposal.
(7) Where any case has been transferred under sub-section (6), the Rent
Court to whom the case has been transferred subject to any special direction
in the order of transfer, proceed from the stage at which it was transferred.
36. (1) The Rent Court shall, on application of any party, execute in the
manner prescribed, a final order of any other order passed under this Act by
adopting any one or more of the following modes, namely:-
(a) delivery of possession of the premises to the person in whose favour the
decision has been made;
(b) attachment and sale of the movable or immovable property of the
opposite party;
(c) attachment of any one or more bank accounts of the opposite party and
satisfaction of the amount of order to be paid from such account;
(d) appointing any advocate or any other competent person including
officers of the Rent Court or local administration or local body for the
execution of the order.
(2) The Rent Court may take the help from the local government or local
body or the local police for the execution of the final orders:
Provided that the help of police shall be obtained subject to payment of such
cost by the litigants as may be decided by the Rent Court.
(3) The Rent Court shall conduct the execution proceedings in relation to a
final order or any other order passed under this Act in summary manner and
dispose of the application for execution made under this section within 30
days from the date of service of notice on opposite party.
CHAPTER VII
APPOINTMENT OF RENT AUTHORITIES,
THEIR POWERS, FUNCTIONS AND APPEALS
37. The Collector shall, with the previous approval of the Central/State/UT
Government, appoint an officer, not below the rank of Deputy Collector to
17
Execution
of the
order.
Appointm
ent of Rent
be the Rent Authority for the area within his jurisdiction to which this Act
applies.
38. The Rent Authority shall have the same powers as are vested in Rent
Court under the act, in any proceeding under Section 4, 9, 10, 14, 15 and 20
of the Act. The procedure as laid in section 33 and 36 of the Act shall be
followed in disposal of such applications.
39. (1) An appeal shall lie against the order of the Rent Authority made
under this Act to the Rent Court having territorial jurisdiction.
(2) An appeal under sub-section (1) shall be preferred within thirty days
from the date of the order made by the Rent Authority.
(3) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, every order made by the
Rent Authority shall, subject to decision in appeal, be final and shall not be
called in question in any original suit, application or execution proceeding.
CHAPTER VIII
MISCELLANEOUS
40. (1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no civil court shall entertain
any suit or proceeding in so far as it relates to the provisions of this Act.
(2) The jurisdiction of the Rent Court shall be limited to tenancy agreement
submitted to it as per First Schedule and the question of title and ownership
of premises shall be beyond its jurisdiction.
7 of 1870 41. (1) The provisions of the Court-fees Act, 1870 shall apply in respect of
applications or appeals to be presented before the Rent Court or Rent
Tribunal or Rent Authority, as the case may be.
(2) The applications for recovery of possession made to the Rent Court and
the memorandum of appeals presented before the Rent Tribunal shall be
treated as suits between the landlord and the tenant for the purposes of
computation of court fees.
(3) The court fees on the application filed before the Rent Authority shall be
same as of an interlocutory application presented in a civil court.
45 of 1860 42. All members of Rent Court, Rent Tribunal and Rent Authority
appointed under this Act shall be deemed to be public servants within the
meaning of Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.
43. The members of Rent Court and Rent Tribunal shall function under the
administrative and disciplinary control of the High Court.
44. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any Rent
Court or Rent Tribunal or Rent Authority in respect of anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act.
18
Authority.
Power and
procedure
of Rent
Authority.
Appeals.
Jurisdictio
n of civil
courts
barred in
respect of
certain
matters.
Court fees.
Members
etc. to be
public
servants.
Members
etc. to
function
under the
High
Court.
Protection
of action
taken in
good faith.
45. The Central/State/UT Government may, by notification, make rules to
carry out the provisions of this Act.
46. (1) Every rule made by the Central Government, under this Act shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament,
while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be
comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification
in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule,
shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as
the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule.
(2) Every rule made by a State Government or the Union territory
Government, as the case may be, under this Act shall be laid as soon as may
be, after it is made, before the State Legislature, or the Union territory
Legislature, as the case may be, where it consists of two Houses, or where
such legislature consists of one House, before that House.
47. (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central/State/UT Government may, by order, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, remove the difficulty:
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of
two years from the commencement of this Act.
(2) Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is
made be laid before each House of Parliament/State Legislature/UT
Legislature.
48. (1) The Name of the Central/State/UT Act applicable is hereby
repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal and subject to the provisions of this Act all
cases and other proceedings under the said Act pending, at the
commencement of this Act, shall be continued and disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of the said Act, as if the said Act had
continued in force and this Act had not been passed:
Provided that the plaintiff within a period of 180 days of coming into force
of this Act shall be entitled to withdraw any suit or appeal or any other
proceeding pending under the repealed Act with liberty to file fresh
application in respect of the subject matter of such suit or appeal or any
other proceeding under and in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
and for the purposes of limitation, such application if it is filed within a
period of 270 days from the commencement of this Act be deemed to have
been filed on the date of filing of the suit which was withdrawn and in case
of withdrawal of appeal or other proceedings on the date on which the suit
was filed out of which such appeal or proceeding originated.
19
Power to
make rules.
Laying of
rules.
Power to
remove
difficulties.
Repeal and
savings.
THE FIRST SCHEDULE
(See Section 4)
FORM FOR INFORMATION OF TENANCY
To,
The Rent Authority
___________________
________________ (Address)
1. Name & Address of the
:
Landlord
2. Name & Address of the
3. Property Manager (if any)
Name(s) & Address of the
Tenant, including email id and
contact details
:
:
4. Description of previous
:
tenancy, if any
5. Description of premises let to
:
the tenant including
appurtenant land, if any
6. Date from which possession is
:
given to the tenant
7. Rent payable as in section 6 :
8. Furniture and other equipment
:
provided to the tenant
9. Other charges payable :
a. Electricity :
b. Water :
c. Extra furnishing, fittings
and fixtures
:
d. Other services :
10. Attach rent/lease agreement, if
any
11. Duration of tenancy (Period
for which let)
:
:
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
Name and Signature
of Landlord
Name and Signature
of Tenant
20
THE SECOND SCHEDULE
(See Section 15 (1))
DIVISION OF MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY BETWEEN THE LANDLORD AND
THE TENANTS
As per Section 16, the landlord shall be responsible for repairs relating to matters falling under Part A
and the tenant shall be responsible for matters falling under Part B.
Part A
Responsibilities of the Landlord
1. 2. 3. 4. Structural repairs except those necessitated by damage caused by the tenant.
Whitewashing of walls and painting of doors and windows.
Changing and plumbing pipes when necessary.
Internal and external electrical wiring and related maintenance when necessary.
Part B
Periodic repairs to be got done by the tenant
1. Changing of tap washers and taps
2. Drain cleaning
3. Water closet repairs
4. Wash Basin repairs
5. Bath tub repairs
6. Geyser repairs
7. Circuit breaker repairs
8. Switches and socket repairs
9. Repairs and replacement of electrical equipment except major internal and external wiring changes
10. Kitchen fixtures repairs
11. Replacement of knobs and locks of doors, cupboard, windows etc.
12. Replacement of flynets
13. Replacement of glass panels in windows, doors etc
14. Maintenance of gardens and open spaces let out to or used by the tenant
21
THE THIRD SCHEDULE
(See Section 22 (1))
SPECIAL CATEGORY OF LANDLORDS
Special category of landlords specified in sub-section (1) of Section 23 are as follows:-
1. Persons allotted residential premises by their employers and asked to vacate the same due to
termination of service or change in rules or for any other reason.
2. Persons released or retired from Government Service including Armed Force or Air Force or
Navy or Paramilitary Forces.
3. Widows, divorcees or single women.
4. Person with disabilities.
5. A person who is of the age of 60 years and above.
**************
22