THE TELANGANA BUILDINGS (LEASE, RENT AND EVICTION)
CONTROL ACT, 1960.
(ACT No. XV OF 1960.)
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Sections
1. Short title and application.
2. Definitions.
3. Notice of vacancy.
4. Determination of fair rent.
5. Increase in fair rent in what cases admissible.
6. Increase of rent in certain cases.
7. Landlord not to claim or receive any thing in
excess of fair rent or agreed rent.
8. 9. Right of tenant paying rent or advance to receipt.
Right of tenant to deposit rent in certain cases.
10. Eviction of tenants.
10-A. Right to recover immediate possession of
premises to accrue to members of the armed
forces etc.
10-B. 10-C. 11. 12. Right to recover immediate possession to accrue
to employee of State or Central Government.
Right to recover immediate possession of
premises to accrue to a widow.
Payment or deposit of rent during the pendency of
proceedings for eviction.
Recovery of possession by landlord for repairs,
alterations or additions or for reconstruction.
2 [Act No. XV of 1960]
13. Recovery of possession by landlord for repairs,
alterations or additions or for reconstruction of
building in respect of which the Government shall
be deemed to be the tenant.
14. Landlord not to interfere with amenities enjoyed by
the tenant.
15. Execution of orders.
16. Decisions which have become final not to be
reopened.
17. Orders of Controller, appellate and revisional
authority to be pronounced in open court.
18. Conversion into non-residential building.
19. Failure by landlord to make necessary repairs.
20. Appeal.
21. Costs.
22. Revision.
23. 24. Order under this Act to be binding on sub-tenants.
Proceedings by or against legal representatives.
25. Summons to witnesses.
26. Exemptions.
27. Executive authorities of local bodies to furnish
certified extracts from property tax assessment
books.
28. Landlord and tenant to furnish particulars.
29. Penalties.
30. Power to make rules.
31. 32. Power to enter and inspect premises.
Act not apply to certain buildings.
[Act No. XV of 1960] 3
33. Repeals and savings.
34. Indemnity for acts done under this Act.
35. Power to remove difficulties.
THE TELANGANA BUILDINGS (LEASE, RENT AND
EVICTION) CONTROL ACT, 1960.1
ACT No. XV OF 1960.
1. (1) This Act may be called the 2Telangana Buildings
(Lease, Rent and Eviction) Control Act, 1960.
(2) (a) This Act, except sub-section (2) of section 3, shall
apply to the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad,
3[Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada] Municipal Corporations
4[and to all municipal corporations and municipalities in the
State of 2Telangana].
(b) sub-section (2) of section 3, shall apply to the
cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad, 3[Visakhapatnam
and Vijayawada] and 4[to any municipal corporation or
municipality in the State of 2Telangana], if the State
Government, by notification in the Telangana Gazette so
direct.
Short title and
application.
(c) the State Government may, by notification in the
Telangana Gazette, apply all or any of the provisions of this
Act except sub-section (2) of section 3 to any other area in
the State of Telangana with effect from such date as may be
specified in the notification, and may cancel or modify any
such notification.
1. The Andhra Pradesh Buildings (Lease, Rent and Eviction) Control Act,
1960 in force in the combined State, as on 02.06.2014, has been
adapted to the State of Telangana, under section 101 of the Andhra
Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014 (Central Act 6 of 2014) vide. the
Telangana Adaptation of Laws Order, 2016, issued in G.O.Ms.No.45,
Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.
2. Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.
3. Inserted by Act No.22 of 1985.
4. Substituted by Act No.27 of 1997.
2 [Act No.XV of 1960]
Definitions.
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
(i) „Andhra area‟ means the territories which immediately
before the 1st November 1956, were comprised in the State
of Andhra;
(ii) „authorised officer‟ means any officer authorised by
the Government under sub-section (1) of section 3;
(iii) „building‟ means any house or hut or part of a house
or hut, let or to be let separately for residential or non-
residential purposes and includes-
(a) the gardens, grounds, garages and out-houses, if
any, appurtenant to such house, hut or part of such house
or hut and let or to be let along with such house or hut or
part of such house or hut;
(b) any furniture supplied or any fittings affixed by the
landlord for use in such house or hut or part of a house or
hut;
but does not include a room in a hotel or boarding house;
(iv) „Controller‟ means any person not below the rank of
a Tahsildar appointed by the Government to perform the
functions of a Controller under this Act;
(v) „Government‟ means the State Government;
(vi) „landlord‟ means the owner of a building and
includes a person who is receiving or is entitled to receive
the rent of a building whether on his own account or on
behalf of another person or on behalf of himself and others
or as an agent, trustee, executor, administrator, receiver or
guardian or who would so receive the rent or be entitled to
receive the rent; if the building were let a tenant;
[Act No. XV of 1960] 3
Explanation.- A tenant who sub-lets a building shall be
deemed to be a landlord within the meaning of this Act in
relation to the sub-tenant;
(vii) „prescribed‟ means prescribed by rules made under
this Act;
(viii) „Telangana area‟ means the territories specified in
sub-section (1) of section 3.of the States Reorganization Act,
1956 (Central Act 37 of 1956);
(ix) „tenant‟ means any person by whom or on whose
account rent is payable for a building and includes the
surviving spouse, or any son or daughter, of a deceased
tenant who had been living with the tenant in the building as
a member of the tenant‟s family up to the death of the tenant
and a person continuing in possession after the termination
of the tenancy in his favour,
but does not include a person placed in occupation of a
building, by its tenant or a person to whom the collection of
rents or fees in a public market, cart-stand or slaughter-
house or of rents for shops has been framed out or leased
by a local authority.
3. (1) (a) Every landlord shall, within ten days after the
building becomes vacant by his ceasing to occupy it, or by
the termination of a tenancy, or by the eviction of the tenant
or by release from requisition or otherwise, give notice of the
vacancy in writing to the officer authorised in that behalf by
the Government.
Explanation.- A landlord who, having obtained
possession of a building under sub-section (3) of section 10
lets the whole or part of it to a tenant shall be deemed to
have failed to give notice under this section.
Notice of vacancy.
4 [Act No.XV of 1960]
(b) Every notice given under clause (a) shall contain
such particulars as may be prescribed.
(2) 5[In any Municipal Corporation or in any Municipality]
(including the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad,
6[Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada]) to which this sub-section
has been applied under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of
section 1, where the tenant of a building puts another
person in occupation thereof and does not re-occupy it
within a period of three months, then, on the expiry of such
period, the tenancy shall be deemed to have terminated and
it shall be the duty of the tenant, and also of the landlord if
he is aware of such terminaiion, to give notice thereof in
writing to the authorised officer within seven days of such
termination:
Provided that where the tenant obtains written
permission from the authorised officer to re-occupy the
building within a period of six months, this sub-section shall
have effect as if for the period of three months specified
therein a period of six months were substituted.
Explanation.- This sub-section shall not apply where the
building has been sub-let by a tenant entitled to do so, after
giving due notice to the authorised officer under sub-section
(1) and in conformity with the provisions of this section.
(3) If, within fifteen days of the receipt by the authorised
officer of a notice under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2),
the Government or the authorised officer does not intimate
to the landlord in writing that the building is required for the
purposes of the State Government or the Central
Government or of any local authority or of any public
institution under the control of any such Government or for
5. Inserted by Act No.27 of 1997.
6. Inserted by Act No.22 of 1985.
[Act No. XV of 1960] 5
the occupation of any officer of such Government, the
landlord shall be at liberty to let the building to any tenant or
to occupy it himself.
(4) (a) The authorised officer may, on receipt of an
application from the landlord, or on receipt of a direction
from the Government in pursuance of an application made
to them by the landlord, release a building for the
occupation of the landlord.
(b) A landlord who has obtained possession of a
building in pursuance of an order under clause (a) shall
occupy it himself and if he does not himself occupy it but
proposes either to let out or keep vacant the whole or any
part of the building for a period exceeding that permitted by
the authorised officer by order in writing, he shall give notice
as required under sub-section (1) as if the building has
fallen vacant.
(c) Where a landlord fails to give intimation to the
authorised officer as required under clause (b), the
Government or the authorised officer shall have power, if the
building is required for any of the purposes, or for
occupation by any of the officers specified in sub-section
(3), to give intimation to the landlord that the building is so
required and thereupon the provisions of sub-sections (6)
and (8) shall apply to the building.
(5) The landlord shall not let the building to a tenant or
occupy it himself, before the expiry of the period of fifteen
days specified in sub-section (3), unless in the meantime he
has received intimation that the building is not required for
the purposes, or for occupation by any of the officers, speci-
fied in that sub-section.
6 [Act No.XV of 1960]
(6) If the building is required for any of the purposes or
for occupation by any of the officers specified in sub-section
(3), the landlord shall deliver possession of the building to
the authorised officer or to the allottee, named by the
authorised officer, as the case may be, and the Government
shall be deemed to be the tenant of the landlord, with
retrospective effect from the date on which the authorised
officer received notice under sub-section (1) or sub-section
(2), the terms of the tenancy being such as may be agreed
upon between the landlord and the tenant and in default of
an agreement, as may be determined by the Controller:
Provided that-
(i) where the landlord fails to deliver possession of
the building to the authorised officer, within forty-eight hours
of the receipt of the intimation that the building is required
for any of the purposes, or for occupation by any of the
officers specified in sub-section (3) or within such further
time as the authorised officer may by order in writing allow,
the Government shall be deemed to be the tenant of the
landlord only from the date on which he delivers
possession;
(ii) where owing to any ommission or act or
obstructive or preventive tactics on the part of the landlord
there has been delay in coming to a decision whether or not
the building is required for any of the purposes, or for
occupation by any of the officers specified in sub-section
(3), the Government shall be deemed to be the tenant of the
landlord only from such later date as may be fixed by the
authorised officer having regard to the circumstances of
each case;
(iii) the rent payable shall be the fair rent, if any, fixed
for the building under the provisions of this Act; and if no fair
[Act No. XV of 1960] 7
rent has been so fixed, such reasonable rent as the
authorised officer may determine;
(iv) the reasonable rent fixed by the authorised officer
under the foregoing proviso shall be subject to such fair rent
as may be determined by the Controller;
(v) if the building is a residential building, it shall not
be converted into a non-residential building unless the
premission in writing of the Controller is obtained under
section 18;
(vi) no structural alterations shall be made in the
building, unless the consent of the landlord is also obtained
therefor.
(7) In cases not falling under sub-section (6) where the
landlord, without having occupied the building himself, lets it
to any tenant after a notice is given to the authorised officer
under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the tenancy shall
be deemed to have been ante-dated by the number of days
during which the landlord was prohibited from letting the
building to any tenant by virtue of sub-section (5) and the
tenant shall be liable to pay for those days also.
(8) (a) Any officer empowered by the Government in this
behalf may summarily dispossess-
(i) any landlord, tenant or other person occupying
any building in contravention of the provisions of this section
or any landlord who fails to deliver to the Government
possession of any building in respect of which they are
deemed to be the tenant by virtue of this section, or
(ii) any officer, local authority or public institution
continuing to occupy, or failing to deliver possession of, any
building in respect of which the Government are deemed to
8 [Act No.XV of 1960]
be the tenant by virtue of this section, after the termination of
his or its licence to occupy such building,
and take possession of the building including any portion
thereof which may have been sub-let.
Explanation.- The provisions of this clause shall apply
also to cases which, arose before the date of the
commencement of this Act.
(b) If free access to the building is not afforded to the
officer empowered under clause (a) he may after giving
reasonable warning and facility to withdraw to any woman
not appearing in public according to the customs of the
country remove or open any lock or bolt or break open any
door or do any other act necessary for effecting such
dispossession.
(c) Any landlord, tenant or other person or any officer,
local authority or public institution, liable to be summarily
dispossessed under clause (a), shall pay to the Goverment-
(i) the fair rent payable for the building under the
provisions of this Act for the period of his or its occupation
or possession thereof as described in that clause; and
(ii) the expenses, if any, incurred by the
Government in effecting such summary dispossession, as
determined by them.
(9) Nothing in this section shall apply—
(a) to a residential building the monthly rent of which
does not exceed twenty-five rupees; or
(b) to a non-residential building the monthly rent of
which, does not exceed fifty rupees; or
[Act No. XV of 1960] 9
(c) to any building or buildings in the same city, town
or village owned by any company, association or firm,
whether incorporated or not, and bona fide intended solely
for the occupation of its officers, servants or agents.
4. (1) The Controller shall, on application by the tenant or
landlord of a building fix the fair rent for such building after
holding such inquiry as the Controller thinks fit.
(2) In fixing the fair rent under this section the Controller
shall have due regard-
(a) to the prevailing rates of rent in the locality for the
same or similar accommodation in similar circumstances
during the twelve months prior to the 5th April 1944;
(b) to the rental value as entered in the property tax
assessment book of the concerned local authority relating to
the period mentioned in clause (a);
(c) to the circumstances of the case, including any
amount paid by the tenant by way of premium or any other
like sum in addition to rent after the 5th April 1944;
(3) In fixing the fair rent of residential buildings, the
Controller may allow-
(i) if the rate of rent or rental value referred to in sub-
section (2) does not exceed twenty-five rupees per mensem,
an increase not exceeding 12½ per cent on such rate or
rental value;
(ii) if the rate of rent or rental value exceeds twenty-
five rupees per mensem but does not exceed fifty rupees
per mensem, an increase not exceeding 18 ¾ per cent on
such rate or rental value;
Determination of
fair rent.
10 [Act No.XV of 1960]
(iii) if the rate of rent or rental value exceeds fifty
rupees per mensem, an increase not exceeding 37½ per
cent on such rate or rental value:
Provided that in the case of a residential building
which has been constructed after the 5th April 1944, the
percentage of increase shall not exceed 37½, 56¼ and 75
respectively.
(4) In fixing the fair rent of non-residential building, the
Controller may allow-
(i) if the rate of rent or rental value referred to in sub-
section (2) does not exceed fifty rupees per mensem an
increase not exceeding 56 ¼ per cent on such rate or rental
value;
Increase in fair
rent in what cases
admissible.
(ii) if the rate of rent or rental value exceeds fifty
rupees per mensem, an increase not exceeding 75 per cent
on such rate or rental value:
Provided that in the case of a non-residential building
which has been constructed after the 5th Aprll 1944, the
percentage of increase shall not exceed 75 and 150
respectively.
(5) In the case of a building for which the fair rent has
been fixed before the commencement of this Act, the
Controller shall, on the application of the landlord, allow
such increase in the fair rent as in the opinion of the
Controller the landlord is entitled to under this section.
5. (1) When the fair rent of a building has been fixed under
this Act no further increase in such fair rent shall be
permissible except in cases where some addition,
improvemment or alteration has been carried out at the
[Act No. XV of 1960] 11
landlord‟s expense and if the building is then in the
occupation of a tenant, at his request:
Provided that the increase shall be calculated at a rate
per annum not exceeding six per cent of the cost of such
addition, improvement or alteration carried out and the fair
rent as increased under this sub-section shall not exceed
the fair rent payable under this Act for a similar building in
the same locality, with such addition, improvement or
alteration:
Provided further that any dispute between the landlord
and the tenant in regard to any increase claimed under this
sub-section shall be decided by the Controller.
(2) Where, after the fair rent of a building has been fixed
under this Act, there is a decrease or diminution in the
accommodation or amenities provided, the tenant may
claim a reduction in the fair rent as so fixed:
Provided that any dispute between the landlord and the
tenant in regard to any reduction so claimed shall be
decided by the Controller.
6. (1) Where the amount of taxes and cesses payable by
the landlord in respect of any building to a local authority is
enhanced after the fixation of the fair rent under section 4
the landlord shall be entitled to claim half of such excess
from the tenant in addition to the rent payable for the
building under this Act:
Provided that such excess shall not be recoverable in so
far as it has resulted from an increase of rent in respect of
the building.
Increase of rent in
certain cases.
12 [Act No.XV of 1960]
Landlord not to
claim or receive
any thing in
excess of fair rent
or agreed rent.
(2) Any dispute between the landlord and the tenant in
regard to any increase claimed under sub-section (1) shall
be decided by the Controller.
7. (1) Where the Controller has fixed the fair rent of a
building—
(a) the landlord shall not claim, receive or stipulate for
the payment of (i) any premium or other like sum in addition
to such fair rent, or (ii) save as provided in section 5 or
section 6, anything in excess of such fair rent:
Provided that the landlord may receive, or stipulate
for the payment of, an amount not exceeding one month‟s
rent, by way of advance;
(b) save as provided in clause (a), any premium or
other like sum or any rent paid in addition to, or in excess of,
such fair rent, whether before or after the commencement of
this Act, in consideration of the grant, continuance or
renewal of the tenancy of the building after such
commencement, shall be refunded by the landlord to the
person by whom it was paid or at the option of such person,
shall be otherwise adjusted by the landlord:
Provided that where before the determination of the
fair rent, rent has been paid in excess thereof, the refund or
adjustment shall be limited to the amount paid in excess for
a period of six months prior to the date of application by the
tenant or the landlord under sub-section (1) of section 4 for
fixing the fair rent.
(2) Where the fair rent of a building has not been so
fixed—
[Act No. XV of 1960] 13
(a) the landlord shall not, after the commencement of
this Act claim, receive or stipulate for the payment of any
premium or other like sum in addition to the agreed rent:
Provided that the landlord may receive, or stipulate
for the payment of, an amount not exceeding one month‟s
rent by way of advance;
(b) save as provided in clause (a), any sum paid in
excess of the agreed rent whether before or after the
commencement of this Act, in consideration of the grant,
continuance or renewal of the tenancy of the building after
such commencement, shall be refunded by the landlord to
the person by whom it was paid or, at the option of such
person, shall be otherwise adjusted by the landlord.
(3) Any stipulation in contravention of sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2) shall be null and void.
8. (1) Every tenant who makes a payment on account of
rent or advance shall be entitled to obtain a receipt for the
amount paid duly signed by the landlord or his authorised
agent.
(2) Where a landlord refuses to accept, or evades the
receipt of, any rent lawfully payable to him by a, tenant in
respect of any building, the tenant may, by notice in writing,
require the landlord to specify within ten days from the date
of receipt of the notice by him, a bank into which the rent
may be deposited by the tenant to the credit of the landlord:
Provided that such bank shall be one situated in the
city, town or village in which the building is situated or if
there is no such bank in such city, town or village within
three miles of the limits thereof.
Right of tenant
paying rent or
advance to
receipt.
14 [Act No.XV of 1960]
Right of tenant to
deposit rent in
certain cases.
Explanation.- It shall be open to the landlord to specify
from time to time by a written notice to the tenant and
subject to the proviso aforesaid, a bank different from the
one already specified by him under this sub-section.
(3) If the landlord specifies a bank as aforesaid the
tenant shall deposit the rent in the bank and shall continue
to deposit in it any rent which may subsequently become
due in respect of the building.
(4) If the landlord does not specify a bank as aforesaid,
the tenant shall remit the rent to the landlord by money
order, after deducting the money order commission and
continue to remit any rent which may subsequently become
due in respect of the building in the same manner until the
landlord signifies by a written notice to the tenant his
willingness to accept the rent or specifies a bank in which
the rent shall be deposited in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2).
(5) If the landlord refuses to receive the rent remitted by
money order under sub-section (4), the tenant may deposit
the rent before such authority and in such manner as may
be prescribed, and continue to deposit any rent which may
subsequently become due in respect of the building, before
the same authority and in the same manner; and the
amount deposited may, subject to such conditions as may
be prescribed, be withdrawn by the person held by the
controller, to be entitled to the amount on application made
by such person to the controller in that behalf.
9. (1) Where the address of the landlord or his authorised
agent is not known to the tenant, he may deposit the rent
lawfully payable to the landlord in respect of the building,
before such authority and in such manner as may be
prescribed, and continue to deposit any rent which may
subsequently become due in respect of the building, before
[Act No. XV of 1960] 15
the same authority and in the same manner until the
address of the landlord or his authorised agent becomes
known to the tenant.
(2) The amount deposited under sub-section (1) may,
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, be
withdrawn by the person held by the controller to be entitled
to the amount on application made by such person to the
Controller in that behalf.
(3) Where any bona fide doubt or dispute arises as to
the person who is entitled to receive the rent for any building
the tenant may deposit such rent before such authority and
in such manner as may be prescribed and shall report to the
Controller the circumstances under which such deposit was
made by him, and may continue to deposit any rent which
may subsequently become due in respect of the building
before the same authority and in the same manner until the
doubt is removed or the dispute is settled by the decision of
a competent Court or by a settlement between the parties or
until the Controller makes an order under clause (b) of sub-
section (4), as the case may be.
(4) (a) The Controller to whom a report is made under
sub-section (3) shall, if satisfied that a bona fide doubt or
dispute exists in the matter, direct that, pending removal of
the doubt or settlement of the dispute as aforesaid, the
deposit be held by the authority concerned.
(b) If the Controller is not so satisfied, he shall
forthwith order payment of the amount deposited to the
landlord.
(5) Where the Controller passes an order under clause
(a) of sub-section (4) any amount or amounts deposited
under sub-section (3) may be withdrawn only by the person
who is declared by a competent Court to be entitled thereto,
Eviction of
tenants.
16 [Act No.XV of 1960]
or in case the doubt or dispute is removed by a settlement
between the parties, only by the person who is held by the
Controller to be entitled to the amount or amounts in
accordance with such settlement.
10. (1) A tenant shall not be evicted whether in execution of
a decree or otherwise except in accordance with the
provisions of this section or sections 12 and 13:
Provided that where the tenant denies the title of the
landlord or claims right of permanent tenancy, the Controller
shall decide whether the denial or claim is bona fide and if
he records a finding to that effect, the landlord shall be
entitied to sue for eviction of the tenant in a Civil Court and
the Court may pass a decree for eviction on any of the
grounds mentioned in the said sections, notwithstanding
that the Court finds that such denial does not involve
forfeiture of the lease or that the claim is unfounded.
(2) A landlord who seeks to evict his tenant shall apply
to the Controller for a direction in that behalf. If the
Controller after giving the tenant a reasonable opportunity of
showing cause against the application, is satisfied-
(i) that the tenant has not paid or tendered the rent
due by him in respect of the building within fifteen days after
the expiry of the time fixed in the agreement of tenancy with
his landlord or in the absence of any such agreement, by
the last day of the month next following that for which the
rent is payable, or
(ii) that the tenant has, in the Andhra area, after the
23rd October, 1945, and in the Telangana area after
commencement of the Hyderabad Houses Rent Control
Order of 1353 Fasli, without the written consent of the
landlord-
[Act No. XV of 1960] 17
(a) transferred his right under the lease or sub-let
the entire building or any portion thereof if the lease does
not confer on him any right to do so, or
(b) used the building for a purpose other than that
for which it was leased, or
(iii) that the tenant has committed such acts of waste
as are likely to impair materially the value or utility of the
building, or
(iv) that the tenant has been guilty of such acts and
conduct which are a nuisance to the occupiers of other
portions in the same building or of buildings in the
neighbourhood, or
(v) that the tenant has secured alternative building or
ceased to occupy the building for a, continuous period of
four months without reasonable cause, or
(vi) that the tenant has denied the title of the landlord
or claimed a right of permanent tenancy and that such
denial or claim was not bona fide,
the Controller shall make an order directing the tenant to put
the landlord in possession of the building and if the
Controller is not so satisfied, he shall make an order
rejecting the application:
Provided that in any case falling under clause (i), if the
Controller is satisfied that the tenant‟s default to pay or
tender rent was not wilful, he may notwithstanding anything
in section 11, give the tenant a reasonable time, not
exceeding fifteen days, to pay or tender the rent due by bim
to the landlord up to the date of such payment or tender and
on such payment or tender, the application shall be
rejected.
18 [Act No.XV of 1960]
(3) (a) A landlord may, subject to the provisions of
clause (d), apply to the Controller for an order directing the
tenant to put the landlord in possession of the building-
(i) in case it is a residential building—
(a) if the landlord is not occupying a residential
building of his own in the city, town or village concerned
and he requires it for his own occupation;
(b) if the landlord who has more buildings than
one in the city, town or village concerned is in occupation of
one such building and he bona fide requires another
building instead, for his own occupation;
(ii) in case it is a non-residential building which is
used for the purpose of keeping a vehicle or adapted for
such use, if the landlord requires it for his own use and if he
is not occupying any such building in the city, town or
village concerned which is his own or the possession of
which he is entitled whether under this Act or otherwise;
(iii) in case it is any other non-residential building, if
the landlord is not occupying a non-residential building in
the city, town or village concerned which is his own or to the
possession of which he is entitled whether under this Act or
otherwise-
(a) for the purpose of a business which he is
carrying on, on the date of the application, or
(b) for the purpose of a business which in the
opinion of the Controller, the landlord bona fide proposes to
commence:
Provided that a person who becomes a landlord
after the commencement of the tenancy by an instrument
[Act No. XV of 1960] 19
inter vivos shall not be entitled to apply under this clause
before the expiry of three months from the date on which the
instrument was registered:
Provided further that where a landlord has
obtained possession of a building under this clause he shall
not be entitled to apply again under this clause—
(i) in case he has obtained possession of a
residential building, for possession of another residential
building of his own;
(ii) in case he has obtained possession of a non-
residential building, for possession of another non-
residential building of his own.
(b) Where the landlord of a building, whether
residential or non-residential, is a religious, charitable,
educational or other public institution, it may, if the building
is required for the purposes of the institution, apply to the
Controller, subject to the provisions of clause (d), for an
order directing the tenant to put the institution in possession
of the building.
(c) A landlord who is occupying only a part of a
building whether residential or non-residential, may, not
withstanding anything in clause (a), apply to the Controller
for an order directing any tenant occupying the whole or any
portion of the remaining part of the building to put the
landlord in possession thereof, if he requires additional
accommodation for residential purposes or for the purpose
of a, business, which he is carrying on, as the case may be.
(d) Where the tenancy is for a specified period
agreed upon between the landlord and the tenant, the
landlord shall not be entitled to apply under this sub-section
before the expiry of such period.
20 [Act No.XV of 1960]
(e) The Controller shall, if he is satisfied that the claim
of the landlord is bona fide make an order directing the
tenant to put the landlord in possession of the building on
such date as may be specified by the Controller and if the
Controller is not so satisfied, he shall make an order
rejecting the application:
Provided that, in the case of an application under
clause (c), the Controller shall reject the application if he is
satisfied that the hardship which may be caused to the
tenant by granting it will outweigh the advantage to the
landlord:
Provided further that the Controller may give the
tenant a reasonable time for putting the landlord in
possession of the building and may extend such time so as
not to exceed three months in the aggregate.
(4) No order for eviction shall be passed under sub-
section (3) —
(i) against any tenant who is engaged in any
employment or class of employment notified by the
Government as an essential service for the purposes of this
sub-section unless the landlord is himself engaged in any
employment or class of employment which has been so
notified; or
(ii) in respect of any building which has been left for
use as an educational institution and is actually being used
as such; provided that the institution has been recognized
by the Government or any authority empowered by them in
this behalf, so long as such recognition continues.
(5) (a) Where a landlord who has obtained possession
of a building in pursuance of an order under sub-section (3)
does not himself occupy it and for the purpose specified in
[Act No. XV of 1960] 21
the order within one month of the date of obtaining
possession, or having so occupied it, vacates it without
reasonable cause within six months of such date, the tenant
who has been evicted may apply to the Controller for an
order directing that he shall be restored to possession of the
building and the Controller shall make an order accordingly
notwithstanding anything in section 3.
(b) Where a tenant who is entitled to apply for
possession under clause (a) fails to do so within one month
from the date on which the right to make the application
accrued to him, the Government or the authorised officer
shall have power, if the building is required for any of the
purposes, or for occupation by any of the officers specified
in sub-section (3) of that section, to give intimation to the
landlord that the building is so required, and thereupon the
provisions of sub-sections (6) and (8) of section 3 shall
apply to the building:
Provided that this clause shall not apply to a
residential building the monthly rent of which does not
exceed twenty-five rupees or to a non-residential building
the monthly rent of which does not exceed fifty rupees.
(6) Where the Controller is satisfied that any application
made by a landlord for the eviction of a tenant is frivolous or
vexatious, the Controller may direct that compensation, not
exceeding fifty rupees be paid by such landlord to the
tenant.
(7) Where an application under sub-section (2) or sub-
section (3) for evicting a tenant has been rejected by the
Controller, the tenancy shall, subject to the provisions of this
Act, be deemed to continue on the same terms and
conditions as before and shall not be terminable by the
landlord except on one or more of the grounds mentioned in
sub-section (2) or sub-section (3).
22 [Act No.XV of 1960]
Right to recover
immediate
possession of
premises to
accrue to
members of the
armed forces etc.
(8) Notwithstanding anything in this section, no person
who is receiving or is entitled to receive the rent of a building
merely as an agent of the landlord shall, except with the
previous written consent of the landlord, be entitled to apply
for the eviction of a tenant.
7[10-A.(1) Where the landlord,-
(a) is a released or retired person from any armed
forces and the premises let out by him, spouse or his
dependent son or daughter are required for his own use; or
(b) is dependant of a member of any armed forces
who had been killed in action and the premises let out by
such member are required for the use of the family of such
member, such person, his spouse or his dependant son or
daughter, as the case may be, may within one year from the
date of his release or retirement from such armed forces or,
as the case may be the date of death of such member, or
within a period of one year from the date of commencement
of this Act, whichever is later, apply to the Court for
recovering the immediate possession of such premises.
(2) Where the landlord is a member of any of the armed
forces and has a period of less than one year preceding the
date of his retirement and the premises let out by him, his
spouse or his dependant son or daughter are required for
his own use after his retirement, he may, at any time, within
a period of one year before the date of his retirement, apply
to the Court for recovering immediate possession of such
premises.
(3) Where the landlord referred to in sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2) has let out more than one premises, it shall
7. Sections 10-A, 10-B and 10-C with marginal headings, added by Act
No.17 of 2005.
[Act No. XV of 1960] 23
be open to him, his spouse or his dependant son or
daughter to make an application under that sub-section in
respect of only one of the premises chosen by him.
Explanation: For the purpose of this section, “armed
forces” means an armed force of the Union constituted
under an Act of Parliament and includes a member of the
police force as defined under the 8Telangana Members of
Police Force (Regulation of Transfers) Act, 1985.
10-B. (1) Where the landlord is a retired employee of the
State or Central Government, and the premises let out by
him, his spouse or his dependant son or daughter are
required for his own use, such employee may, within one
year from the date of his retirement or within a period of one
year from the date of commencement of this Act, whichever
is later, apply to the Court for recovering immediate
possession of such premises.
(2) Where the landlord is an employee of the State or
Central Government and has a period of less than one year
preceding the date of his retirment and the premises let out
by him, his spouse or his dependant son or daughter are
required by him for his own use after his retirement, he may,
at any time within a period of one year before the date of his
retirement, apply to the Court for recovering immediate
possession of such premises.
(3) Where the landlord, his spouse or his dependant son
or daughter referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)
has let out more than one premises, it shall be open to him,
his spouse or his dependant son or daughter, as the case
may be, to make an application under that sub-section in
respect of only one of the premises chosen by him.
8. Adapted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.
Act 9 of 1985
Right to recover
immediate
possession to
accrue to
employee of State
or Central
Government.
Right to recover
immediate
possession of
premises to
accrue to a
widow.
Central Act 48 of 1961.
Payment or
deposit of rent
during the
pendency of
proceedings for
eviction.
24 [Act No.XV of 1960]
10-C. (1) Where the landlord is,-
(a) a widow and the premises let out by her, or by her
husband;
(b) a handicapped person and the premises let out
by him;
(c) a person who is of the age of sixty-five years or
more and the premises let out by him, or her;
is required for use by him or her or for his or her family or for
any one ordinarily living with him or her as the case may be
for use he or she may apply to the Court for recovery of
immediate possession of such premises.
(2) Where the landlord referred to in sub-section (1) has
let out more than one premises, it shall be open to him to
make an application under that sub-section in respect of any
one reisdential and one non-residential premises each
chosen by him.
Explanation-I:- For the purposes of this section,
“handicapped person” shall mean a person who is as if
being an assessee entitled for the time being to the benefits
of deduction under section 80-U of the Income-tax Act,
1961.
Explanation-II:- The right to recover possession under
this section shall be exercisable only once in respect of
each for residential and for non-residential use.]
11. (1) No tenant against whom an application for eviction
has been made by a landlord under section 10, shall be
entitled to contest the application before the Controller
under that section, or to prefer any appeal under section 20
against any order made by the Controller on the application,
[Act No. XV of 1960] 25
unless he has paid to the landlord, or deposits with the
Controller or the appellate authority, as the case may be, all
arrears of rent due in respect of the building up to the date
of payment or deposit and continues to pay or deposit any
rent which may subsequently become due in respect of the
building, until the termination of the proceedings before the
Controller or the appellate authority, as the case may be.
(2) The deposit of rent under sub-section (1) shall be
made within the time and in the manner prescribed.
(3) Where there is any dispute as to the amount of rent
to be paid or deposited under sub-section (1), the Controller
or the appellate authority, as the case may be, shall on
application made to him either by the tenant or by the
landlord, and after making such inquiry as he deems
necessary, determine summarily the rent to be so paid or
deposited.
(4) If any tenant fails to pay or to deposit the rent as
aforesaid, the Controller or the appellate authority, as the
case may be, shall, unless the tenant shows sufficient cause
to the contrary, stop all further proceedings and make an
order directing the tenant to put the landlord in possesion of
the building.
(5) The amount deposited under sub-section (1) may,
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, be
withdrawn by the landlord on application made by him in
that behalf to the Controller or the appellate authority, as the
case may be.
12. (1) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, on an
application made by a landlord, the Controller may, if he is
satisfied-
Recovery of
possession by
landlord for
repairs, alterations
or additions or for
reconstruction.
26 [Act No.XV of 1960]
(a) that the building is reasonably and bona fide-
required by the landlord for carrying out repairs, alterations
or additions which cannot be carried out without the
building being vacated; or
(b) that the building consists of not more than two
floors and is reasonably and bona fide required by the
landlord for the immediate purpose of demolishing it and
such demolition is to be made for the purpose of erecting a
new building on the site of the building sought to be
demolished, pass an order directing the tenant to deliver
possession of the building to the landlord before a specified
date.
(2) No order for recovery of possession under this
section shall be passed unless the landlord gives an
undertaking that the building on completion of the repairs,
alterations or additions or the new building on its completion
will be offered to the tenant, who delivered possession in
pursuance or an order under sub-section (1), for his re-
occupation before the expiry of such period as may be
specified by the Controller in this behalf.
(3) In case the tenant, to whom the building or the new
building, as the case may be, is offered under sub-section
(2) by the landlord does not want to occupy it the landlord
shall give notice of vacancy in writing to the authorised
officer under sub-section (1) of section 3.
(4) Nothing in this section shall entitle the landlord, who
has recovered possession of the building for repairs,
alterations or additions or for reconstruction to convert a
residential building into a non-residential building or a non-
residential building into a residential building unless such
conversion is permitted by the Controller at the time of
passing an order under sub-section (1).
[Act No. XV of 1960] 27
13. (1) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, on an
application made by a landlord of a building in respect of
which the Government shall be deemed to be the tenant,
the authorised officer may, if he is satisfied-
(a) that the building is reasonably and bona fide
required by the landlord for carrying out repairs, alterations
or additions which cannot be carried out without the
building being vacated; or
(b) that the building consists of not more than two
floors and is reasonably and bona fide required by the
landlord for the immediate purpose of demolishing it and
such demolition is to be made for the purpose of erecting a
new building on the site of the building sought to be
demolished, pass an order directing the allottee to deliver
possession of the building to the landlord before a specified
date.
Recovery of
possession by
landlord for
repairs, alterations
or additions or for
reconstruction of
building in respect
of which the
Government shall
be deemed to be
the tenant.
(2) No order for recovery of possession under this
section shall be passed unless the landlord gives an
undertaking that the building on completion of the repairs,
alterations or additions or the new building on its completion
will be offered to the authorised officer before the expiry of
such period as may be specified by the authorised officer in
this behalf for re-allotment to any person named by the
authorised officer.
(3) Nothing in this section shall entitle the landlord, who
has recovered possession of the building for repairs,
alterations or additions or for reconstruction to convert a
residential building into a non-residential building or a
non-residential building into a residential building unless
such conversion is permitted by the authorised officer at the
time of passing an order under sub-section (1).
28 [Act No.XV of 1960]
Landlord not to
interfere with
amenities enjoyed
by the tenant.
14. (1) No landlord shall, without just or sufficient cause, cut
off or withhold any of the amenities enjoyed by the tenant.
(2) A tenant in occupation of a building may, if the
landlord has contravened the provisions of this section,
make an application to the Controller complaining of such
contravention.
(3) If the tenant satisfies the Controller that the amenities
were cut off or withheld without just or sufficient cause, the
Controller may pass an interim order, directing the landlord,
to restore the amenities immediately, pending the inquiry
referred to in sub-section (4).
Explanation.- An interim order may be passed under this
sub-section without giving notice to the landlord.
(4) If the Controller on inquiry finds that the tenant has
been in enjoyment of the amenities and that they were cut
off or withheld by the landlord without just or sufficient
cause, he shall make an order directing the landlord to
restore such amenities.
(5) If any of the amenities enjoyed by the tenant are
stopped by any person other than the landlord by reason of
the landlord‟s failure to pay taxes or other charges, the
tenant may pay such taxes or other charges and have the
amenities restored and deduct from the rent the amounts so
paid by him towards such taxes or other charges.
(6) The Controller may in his discretion direct that
compensation not exceeding fifty rupees-
(a) be paid to the landlord by the tenant, if the
application under sub-section (2) was made frivolously or
vexatiously;
[Act No. XV of 1960] 29
(b) be paid to the tenant by the landlord, if the
landlord has cut off or withheld the amenities frivolously or
vexatiously.
Explanation.- In this section the expression „amenities‟
include supply of water, electricity, passages, staircases,
light, lavatories, lifts and conservancy or sanitary services.
15. Every order made under section 10, section 12, section
13 or section 14 and every order passed on appeal under
section 20, or on revision under section 22 and every order
as to costs under section 21 shall be executed by the
Controller:
Provided that an order passed in execution under this
section shall not be subject to an appeal, but shall be
subject to revision under section 22.
16. The Controller shall summarily reject any application
under sub-section (2), or sub-section (3) of section 10 or
under section 12 which raises between the same parties or
between parties under whom they or any of them claim,
substantially the same issues as have been finally decided
or as purport to have been finally decided, in a former
proceeding under this Act or under any law corresponding
thereto in force at the relevant time prior to the
commencement of this Act.
17. Every order passed by a Controller or an appellate or
revisional authority under this Act shall be pronounced in
open Court on the day on which the case is finally heard, or
on some future day of which due notice shall be given to the
parties.
Execution of
orders.
Decisions which
have become final
not to be
reopened.
Orders of
Controller,
appellate and
revisional
authority to be
pronounced in
open court.
30 [Act No.XV of 1960]
Conversion into
non-residential
building.
Failure by
landlord to make
necessary repairs.
Appeal.
18. No residential building shall be converted into a
non-residential building except with the permission in writing
of the Controller.
19. If a landlord fails to make necessary repairs to the
building within a reasonable time after notice is given-
(a) by the authorised officer in respect of a building of
which the Government shall be deemed to be the tenant
under sub-section (6) of section 3;
(b) by the tenant in respect of any other building;
the authorised officer aforesaid may, in the case referred to
in clause (a), make such repairs or have them made by the
allottee and deduct the cost thereof from the rent payable
for the building or ask the allottee to make such a deduction
from the rent payable; and the Controller may, in the case
referred to in clause (b), direct, on application by the tenant,
that such repairs may be made by the tenant and that the
cost thereof may be deducted by the tenant from the rent
payable for the building:
Provided that the cost of repairs, and the deduction
thereof which the authorised officer or the Controller, as the
case may be, may authorise shall not exceed in any one
year one-twelfth of the rent payable in respect of the
building for that year.
20. (1) Any person aggrieved by an order passed by the
Controller may, within thirty days, from the date of such
order, prefer an appeal in writing to the Chief Judge, Small
Causes Court in the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad
and elsewhere to the Subordinate Judge, or if there are
more than one Subordinate Judge, to the Principal
Subordinate Judge having original jurisdiction over the area
aforesaid. In computing the said period of thirty days, the
[Act No. XV of 1960] 31
time taken to obtain a certified copy of the order appealed
against shall be excluded.
(2) On such appeal being preferred, the appellate
authority may order stay of further proceedings in the matter
pending decision on the appeal.
(3) The appellate authority shall send for the records of
the case from the Controller and after giving the parties an
opportunity of being heard and, if necessary, after making
such further inquiry as he thinks fit either personally or
through the Controller, shall decide the appeal.
Explanation.- The appellate authority may, while
confirming the order of eviction passed by the Controller
grant an extension of time to the tenant for putting the
landlord in possession of the building.
(4) The decision of the appellate authority and subject to
such decision, an order of the Controller shall be final and
shall not be liable to be called in question in any Court of
law, except as provided in section 22.
21. Subject to such conditions and limitations, if any as may
be prescribed, the costs of and incident to all proceedings
before the Controller or the appellate authority referred to in
section 20 shall be in the discertion of the Controller or the
appellate authority, who shall have full power to determine
by whom or out of what property and to what extent such
costs are to be paid, and to give all necessary directions for
the purpose.
Explanation.- The appellate authority may set aside or
vary any order passed by the Controller in regard to the
costs of and incident to the proceedings before him.
Costs.
32 [Act No.XV of 1960]
Revision.
Order under this
Act to be binding
on sub-tenants.
Proceedings by or
against legal
representatives.
Summons to
witnesses.
22. (1) The High Court may, at any time, on the application
of any aggrieved party, call for and examine the records
relating to any order passed or proceeding taken under this
Act by the Controller in execution under section 15 or by the
appellate authority on appeal under section 20, for the
purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality, regularity or
propriety of such order or proceeding, and may pass such
order in reference thereto as it thinks fit.
(2) The costs of and incident to all proceedings before
the High Court under sub-section (1) shall be in its
discretion.
23. Any order for the eviction of a tenant passed under this
Act shall be binding on all sub-tenants under such tenant
whether they were parties to the proceeding or not tenant
and whether they became sub-tenants before or after the
date of the application for eviction, provided that such order
was not obtained by fraud or collusion.
24. (1) Any application made, appeal preferred or
proceeding taken under this Act by or against any person,
may, in the event of his death, be continued by or against
his legal representatives.
(2) Where any application, appeal or other proceeding
could have been made, preferred or taken, under this Act by
or against any person, such application, appeal or other
proceeding, may in the event of his death, be made,
preferred or taken by or against his legal representatives.
25. Subject to such conditions and limitations as may be
prescribed, the Controller may, in his discretion, issue
summons to witnesses requiring them to attend in person to
give evidence or to produce documents in their custody in
connection with any proceedings before him.
[Act No. XV of 1960] 33
26. Notwithstanding anything in this Act, the Government
may by notification in the Telangana Gazette, exempt,
subject to such conditions and terms, if any, as they may
specify in the notification, any building or class of buildings
from all or any of the provisions of this Act.
27. The Executive authority of the concerned local authority
shall, on application made in this behalf and on payment of
such fee as may, from time to time, be fixed by the
Government by notification in the Telangana Gazette, grant
to the applicant a certified copy of the extract from the
property tax assessment book of the local authority,
showing the rental value of the building or buildings in
respect of which application has been made, relating to the
period specified in the application. Such certified copy shall
be received as evidence of the facts stated therein, in
proceedings under this Act.
28. Every landlord and every tenant of a building shall be
bound to furnish to the Controller or any person authorised
by him in that behalf, such particulars in respect of the
building as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act.
29. If any person contravenes any of the provisions of
sub-sections (1), (2), (4) (b), (5) and (6) of section 3,
sub-sections (1) (a) and (2) (a) of section 7, sub-section (1)
of section 14, section 18 and section 28, he shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to two thousand
rupees.
30. (1) The Government may by notification in the
Telangana Gazette, make rules to carry out the purposes of
this Act.
(2) Without projudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for-
Exemptions.
Executive
authorities of local
bodies to furnish
certified extracts
from property tax
assessment
books.
Landlord and
tenant to furnish
particulars.
Penalties.
Power to make
rules.
34 [Act No.XV of 1960]
(a) all matters expressly required or allowed by this
Act to be prescribed;
(b) the procedure to be followed by Controllers and
appellate authorities in the performance of their functions
under this Act;
(c) the manner in which notices and orders under this
Act shall be given or served;
(d) setting aside ex-parte orders passed under this
Act;
(e) applications for making legal representatives of
deceased persons, parties to proceedings under this Act
and time within which such applications shall be preferred;
(f) the procedure to be followed in taking possession
of a building and in disposing of the articles found therein at
the time of taking possesson;
(g) the fee leviable in respect of applications and
appeals under this Act; and
(h) any other matter for which there is no provision or
no sufficient provision in this Act and for which provision is,
in the opinion of the Government, necessary for giving effect
to the purposes of this Act.
(3) In making a rule under this section, the Government
may provide that a person who contravenes any of the
provisions thereof shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to two thousand rupees.
(4) All rules made under this section shall, as soon as
may be after they are made, be laid on the Table of both the
Houses of the State Legislature for fourteen days and shall
[Act No. XV of 1960] 35
be subject to such modification, whether by way of repeal or
amendment, as the State Legislature may make during the
session in which they are so laid.
31. The Controller or any person authorised in writing by
him in this behalf, by general or special order, may enter
and inspect any building for the purpose of any inquiry or
for any other purpose connected with this Act or the rules
made thereunder.
9[32. The provisions of this Act shall not apply,-
(a) to any building belonging to the State Government
or the Central Government, or Cantonment Board or any
local authority;
(b) to any building constructed or substantially
renovated, either before or after the commencement of this
Act for a period of fifteen years from the date of completion
of such construction or substantial renovation.
Explanation-I:- A building may be said to be
substantially renovated if not less than seventy five per cent
of the premises is built new in accordance with the criteria
prescribed for determining the extent of renovation.
Explanation-II:- Date of completion of construction shall
be the date of completion as intimated to the concerned
authority or of assessment of property tax, whichever is
earlier, and where the premises have been constructed in
stages the date on which the initial building was completed
and an intimation thereof was sent to the concerned
authority or was assessed to property tax, whichever is
earlier.
Power to enter
and inspect
premises.
Act not apply to
certain buildings.
9. Substituted with marginal heading by Act No.17 of 2005.
Repeals and
savings.
36 [Act No.XV of 1960]
(c) to any building the rent of which as on the date of
commencement of the Andhra Pradesh Buildings (Lease,
Rent and Eviction) Control (Amendment) Act, 2005, exceeds
rupees three thousand and five hundered per month in the
areas covered by the Municipal Corporations in the State
and rupees two thousand per month in other areas.]
33. The Madras Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act,
1949 (Madras Act XXV of 1949), and the Hyderabad Houses
(Rent, Eviction and Lease) Control Act, 1954 (Hyderabad
Act XX of 1954) (hereinafter in this section referred to as the
repealed Acts), are hereby repealed:
Provided that the repeal shall not affect—
(a) the previous operation of the repealed Acts or any
thing duly done or suffered thereunder; or
(b) any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired,
accrued or incurred under the repealed Acts; or
(c) any penalty or punishment incurred in respect of any
offence committed under the repealed Acts; or
(d) any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in
respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability,
penalty or punishment as aforesaid;
and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy
may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such
penalty or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had
not been passed subject to the condition that after the
commencement of this Act no sentence of imprisonment
shall be passed in any case under section 16 of the
repealed Madras Act pending on such commencement:
[Act No. XV of 1960] 37
Provided further that, subject to the preceding proviso
anything done or any action taken including any
appointment made, notification, order, instruction or
direction issued, or rule framed under the repealed Acts
shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the
corresponding provision of this Act, and shall continue to be
in force accordingly, unless and until superseded by
anything done or any action taken under this Act.
34. (1) No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall
lie in any Court against any officer or servant of the
Government or any person acting under his direction or
aiding or assisting him, for anything which is in good faith
done or intended to be done in pursuance of or under this
Act.
(2) No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Government for, or on account of or in respect of, any act,
matter or thing whatsoever, purporting to have been done in
pursuance of or under this Act.
35. (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions
of this Act, in consequence of the transition to the said
provisions from the corresponding provisions of the Acts,
which were in force immediately before the commencement
of this Act, the Government may, by order in the Telangana
Gazette, make such provisions as appear to them to be
necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty.
(2) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions
of this Act (otherwise than in relation to the transition from
the provisions of the corresponding Acts, which were in
force before the commencement of this Act), the
Government may, by order in the Telangana Gazette make
such provisions, not inconsistent with the purposes of this
Act, as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for
removing the difficulty.
* * *
Indemnity for acts
done under this
Act.
Power to remove
difficulties.